# Data Science Projects
## Class Projects
Contains all the projects assigned across 4 years of university. Classes were taught in R, so all code is done in R. Projects are all group projects, so nothing has been modified and names of all group members are left in the reports. Due to being group projects done across varying periods of time, results for some projects may be inaccurate. The datasets used in these projects are also not provided, as the datasets were originally modified and provided by professors and can not be found online.
- [Winning Percentage Prediction](https://github.com/stacy-d-610/projects/tree/main/Class%20Projects/Winning%20Percentage%20Prediction): The aim of this Winning Percentage Prediction project is to generate a multiple linear regression model that best predicts the winning proportion of college basketball teams based on a stat sheet of games. This project is part of a private in-class Kaggle competition.
  - Skills Applied: Multiple Linear Regression Techniques
 - [Random Forest Cross Validation Optimization](https://github.com/stacy-d-610/projects/tree/main/Class%20Projects/Random%20Forest%20Cross%20Validation%20Optimization): The goal of the project was to determine which of the seven tuning parameters of random forest - ntree, replace, mtry, nodesize, maxnodes, classwt, and cutoff - affect the cross validation accuracy.
   - Skills Applied: Random Forest, Experimental Design (Fractional Factorial Design, D-optimal Design)
- [Yelp Dataset Analysis](https://github.com/stacy-d-610/projects/tree/main/Class%20Projects/Yelp%20Dataset%20Analysis): The purpose of this project is to train and evaluate models to predict the Elite status of Yelp reviewers.
    - Skills Applied: Random Forest, LDA and QDA, logistic regression, K-Nearest Neighbors
- [Earthquake Tweet Analysis](https://github.com/stacy-d-610/projects/tree/main/Class%20Projects/Earthquake%20Tweet%20Analysis): First capstone project. The goal of the project is to analyze tweets - messages in the form of text, photos, or videos from Twitter - and to identify which tweets have the most reach in order to help with earthquake relief efforts of the 2023 Turkey earthquake.
    - Skills Applied: Text mining, Sentiment Analysis, Word Clouds
- [Volunteering Impact Analysis](https://github.com/stacy-d-610/projects/tree/main/Class%20Projects/Volunteering%20Impact%20Analysis): Second capstone project, where our group was provided an actual client. For this project, we aimed to use the text-based responses of the survey to answer two questions - what impact the volunteering activity had on students, and whether the impact was related to their motivation for participating, the way students found out about the volunteer opportunity, and the setting of the activity.
    - Skills Applied: Text analysis, Bi-gram/Tri-gram Analysis, Sentiment Analysis, Word Clouds
